# Project Overview

Introduction: 

Seinfeld is a popular sitcom that aired from 1989 to 1998. It was created by Larry David and Jerry Seinfeld. The show is known for its humor, sarcasm, and memorable characters. I thought analyzing dialogue from a show like Seinfeld would be a fun way implement some text analysis tools. I also wanted to try my hand at sarcasm detection because the element of sarcasm is a huge part of the humor in Seinfeld. In this project, I analyze dialogue spanning all of the nine seasons that Seinfeld was on the air. I performed sentiment analysis, topic modeling, and sarcasm detection on the text. The questions that I will be attemping to answer are: Out of the most frequently occuring characters, who has the highest/lowest average sentiment score? What are the most prevalent topics in the show and do they display any similarity? Which character is the most sarcastic?

Results: 

Through applying sentiment analysis, I found that the character with the highest sentiment score was Newman and the character that had the lowest was Frank Costanza. Frank Costanza is known for being a very angry and bitter character so it does make sense that he would have the lowest sentiment score. The most prevalent topics in the show had high frequency of the four main characters names, Jerry, George, Elaine, Kramer. Other underlying themes are present upon futher inspection such as travel, doctor, things relating to eyes, and housing to name a few. After performing sarcasm detection using a pre trained hugging face model I found that the character that had the highest tendency to be sarcastic was Estelle Costanza. Kramer was a close second followed by Newman and Elaine. I attempted to run a hugging face text classification model that had an irony detection component but I was unable to get it to work as tensor size errors kept popping up.

Discussion: 

Overall, I am satisfied with how this project came out and throughly enjoyed working on it. However, I do think that there are some parts that could be improved. I think a futher analysis that dives into specific episodes and seasons would be very interesting. Being able to see how topics change over time, how characters sentiment change over time and character sentiment or sarcasm per episode are the types of things I would want to explore. Additionally, I ran into some problems scraping. The first website that I attemped to scrape was very old. The html structure was inconsistent and I could not get my code to work properly. I then found another website called TV Quotes where I was able to get dialogue for each episode along with character specific quotes that I filtered out in case they were already present in the episode script. The code that I used to scrape the text does have a limitation in that it only scrapes the first page on the episode specific page, meaning that if the episode has one more page of dialogue it is not caputured. However, I do think I got signifigantly large sample of the dialogue. My playwright code could be fine tuned to capture more dialogue as well as assign an episode or date which would be useful for futher analysis. In cleaning my csv file I was able to complete my main objective which was getting a character column and a quote column but I believe I could have maybe assigned dates to my rows of text. I also think that the sentiment analysis I performed struggled given the nature of the shows scripting. Even with using more advanced sentiment analysis I am not sure it would have made a difference. One example of this that I found in my data was, "Did you just double dip that chip?" Usually there is a negative conatation with 'double dipping' but the sentiment score can't exactly detect that thus assigning a neutral score of 0. There are also many "Seinfeldism's" such as Festivus, which is a made up holiday, or yada yada yada which is a phrase that is used to skip over boring or unimportant details.
